HSEARCH-4678 Use UUID ids for OutboxEvent entity (#3301)
hibernate/hibernate-search: documentation/src/main/asciidoc/migration/index.asciidoc

A boolean predicate with no clause will now consistently match no documents regardless of the backend.
* API methods matching `*Async(..)` pattern (e.g. `SearchWorkspace#purgeAsync()`) will no longer block
if internal queues of operations are full, but will throw `RejectedOperationException` instead.

[[outboxpolling]]
== Outbox polling system tables

> 

Reviewer: Wouldn't that fit the "Data format and schema changes" section? As a subsection, perhaps?

Author: That was where I wanted to put it ... but then I thought that that section is for index schema, so placed it as its own section 😄. Will move it!

Reviewer: You're right, it was, but only because I didn't anticipate DB schema changes. It makes sense to just change the purpose of that section :)

> Due to changes to the entity that represents the outbox event, DB schema changes are required.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you use the incubating link:{hibernateSearchDocUrl}#coordination-outbox-polling[`outbox-polling` coordination strategy],
you will be impacted by changes to the entity that represents the outbox event,
requiring database schema changes.
```

A new column -  `created::timestamp` is introduced, `id` column changes the type from integer to varchar.

> You can find suggested migration scripts for the supported databases below:

Reviewer: I know I used the term "supported", but I was taking liberties: we don't really provide support, and we don't even document which databases are supposed to work correctly... Let's not imply too much here.

```suggestion
You can find suggested migration scripts for the tested databases below:
```

.Postgresql:
[,sql]
----
-- add `created` column that will be used for sorting of events:
alter table hsearch_outbox_event

>     add column created timestamp not null default now();

Reviewer: You're setting a default value here; is that part of the schema? Because it shouldn't be, as the schema generated by Hibernate Search doesn't include it.

Maybe you shouldn't use `not null`/`default` here, and just add an `alter` statement later to add the `not null` constraint?

-- adjust `created` values for existing events so that older events (i.e. ones with smaller ID) will have older timestamp:
update hsearch_outbox_event
set created = now() - make_interval(secs => (select max(id) from hsearch_outbox_event) - id)
where 1 = 1;

-- change `id` column type to varchar and generate uuids to replace previous int values:
alter table hsearch_outbox_event
    alter column id TYPE varchar(36) USING gen_random_uuid();
----

.CockroachDB:
[,sql]
----
-- add `created` column that will be used for sorting of events:
alter table hsearch_outbox_event

>     add column created timestamp not null default now();

Reviewer: Same comment regarding the `default` statement.

-- adjust `created` values for existing events so that older events (i.e. ones with smaller ID) will have older timestamp:
update hsearch_outbox_event
set created = now() - cast(((select max(id) from hsearch_outbox_event) - id) || ' SECOND' as interval)
where 1 = 1;

-- change `id` column type to varchar and generate uuids to replace previous int values:
-- altering type directly is not supported: https://go.crdb.dev/issue-v/47636/v22.1
alter table hsearch_outbox_event
    add tmp varchar(36) default cast(gen_random_uuid() as varchar) not null;
alter table hsearch_outbox_event
    alter primary key using columns (tmp);
alter table hsearch_outbox_event
    drop column id;
alter table hsearch_outbox_event
    rename column tmp to id;
----

.MySQL:
[,sql]
----
-- add `created` column that will be used for sorting of events:
alter table hsearch_outbox_event

>     add column created datetime not null default now();

Reviewer: Same comment regarding the `default` statement.

-- adjust `created` values for existing events so that older events (i.e. ones with smaller ID) will have older timestamp:
with max_id as (
    select max(id) as id from hsearch_outbox_event
)
update hsearch_outbox_event
set created = subtime(now(), sec_to_time((select id from max_id) - id))
where 1 = 1;

-- change `id` column type to varchar and generate uuids to replace previous int values:
alter table hsearch_outbox_event
    modify column id varchar(36);
update hsearch_outbox_event
set id = uuid()
where 1 = 1;
----

.MariaDB:
[,sql]
----
-- add `created` column that will be used for sorting of events:
alter table hsearch_outbox_event

>     add column created datetime not null default now();

Reviewer: Same comment regarding the `default` statement.

-- adjust `created` values for existing events so that older events (i.e. ones with smaller ID) will have older timestamp:
update hsearch_outbox_event
set created = subtime(now(), sec_to_time((select max(id) as id from hsearch_outbox_event) - id))
where 1 = 1;

-- change `id` column type to varchar and generate uuids to replace previous int values:
alter table hsearch_outbox_event
    modify column id varchar(36);
update hsearch_outbox_event
set id = uuid()
where 1 = 1;
----

.DB2:
[,sql]
----
-- add `created` column that will be used for sorting of events:
alter table hsearch_outbox_event

>     add created timestamp not null default current_timestamp ;

Reviewer: Same comment regarding the `default` statement.

-- adjust `created` values for existing events so that older events (i.e. ones with smaller ID) will have older timestamp:
update hsearch_outbox_event
set created = current_timestamp - ((select max(id) from hsearch_outbox_event) - id) seconds
where 1 = 1;

-- change `id` column type to varchar and generate uuids to replace previous int values:
alter table hsearch_outbox_event
    drop primary key;
alter table hsearch_outbox_event
    alter column id set data type varchar(36);
-- make this call if the adding constraint fails:
call sysproc.admin_cmd('reorg table HSEARCH_OUTBOX_EVENT');
alter table hsearch_outbox_event
    add constraint hsearch_outbox_event_pkey primary key (id);
update hsearch_outbox_event
set id = regexp_replace(concat(rawtohex(generate_unique()), 'AAAAAA'), '([A-F0-9]{8})([A-F0-9]{4})([A-F0-9]{4})([A-F0-9]{4})([A-F0-9]{12})', '\1-\2-\3-\4-\5')
where 1 = 1;
----

.Oracle:
[,sql]
----
-- add `created` column that will be used for sorting of events:
alter table hsearch_outbox_event

>     add created timestamp default CURRENT_TIMESTAMP not null;

Reviewer: Same comment regarding the `default` statement.

-- adjust `created` values for existing events so that older events (i.e. ones with smaller ID) will have older timestamp:
update hsearch_outbox_event
set created = current_timestamp - numToDSInterval( (select max(id) from hsearch_outbox_event) - id, 'second' )
where 1 = 1;

-- change `id` column type to varchar and generate uuids to replace previous int values:
alter table hsearch_outbox_event
    add tmp varchar(36) default REGEXP_REPLACE(RAWTOHEX(SYS_GUID()), '([A-F0-9]{8})([A-F0-9]{4})([A-F0-9]{4})([A-F0-9]{4})([A-F0-9]{12})', '\1-\2-\3-\4-\5') not null;
alter table hsearch_outbox_event
    drop column id;
alter table hsearch_outbox_event
    rename column tmp to id;
alter table hsearch_outbox_event
    add constraint hsearch_outbox_event_pkey primary key (id);
----

.MSSQL:
[,sql]
----
-- add `created` column that will be used for sorting of events:
alter table hsearch_outbox_event

>     add created datetime not null default current_timestamp;

Reviewer: Same comment regarding the `default` statement.

-- adjust `created` values for existing events so that older events (i.e. ones with smaller ID) will have older timestamp:
update hsearch_outbox_event
set created = dateadd(ss, -(select max(id) from hsearch_outbox_event) + id, current_timestamp)
where 1 = 1;

-- change `id` column type to varchar and generate uuids to replace previous int values:
alter table hsearch_outbox_event
    drop constraint if exists hsearch_outbox_event_pkey;
alter table hsearch_outbox_event
    alter column id varchar(36) not null;
alter table hsearch_outbox_event
    add constraint hsearch_outbox_event_pkey primary key (id);
update hsearch_outbox_event
set id = newid()
where 1 = 1;
----

.H2:
[,sql]
----
-- add `created` column that will be used for sorting of events:
alter table hsearch_outbox_event

>     add created datetime not null default current_timestamp;

Reviewer: Same comment regarding the `default` statement.
